RHDEVDOCS-3053: Tracker for PR #33193, Fix missing label on OpenShift … (#33202)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/cluster-logging-deploy-multitenant.adoc

// * logging/cluster-logging-deploying.adoc

[id="cluster-logging-deploy-multitenant_{context}"]
= Installing OpenShift Logging with SDN network isolation enabled

> In a cluster, if the xref:../networking/openshift_sdn/about-openshift-sdn.adoc#nw-openshift-sdn-modes_about-openshift-sdn[OpenShift SDN network isolation mode] uses the _Network policy_ or _multitenant_ modes, projects in that cluster are isolated from each other. Both of these modes prevent network traffic between pods or services that are in different projects. Network policy is the default mode in {product-title} {product-version}.

Author: @bergerhoffer I reviewed your PR with the updated guidelines for using xrefs. Does this look okay to you?

Reviewer: @rolfedh @vikram-redhat @bergerhoffer - did we actually turn on the new `xref` capability yet?

Reviewer 2: Not yet :disappointed: still waiting on the go ahead from @vikram-redhat

Author: Removed

> When you deploy OpenShift Logging, the OpenShift Elasticsearch Operator and the Red Hat OpenShift Logging Operator are installed in different projects. Therefore, if a cluster is configured to use the Network policy or multitenant modes, you must explicitly allow access between the  `openshift-operators-redhat` and `openshift-logging` projects. The method you use to allow access depends on the network isolation mode.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you deploy OpenShift Logging, the OpenShift Elasticsearch Operator and the Red Hat OpenShift Logging Operator are installed in different projects. Therefore, if a cluster is using the OpenShift SDN cluster network provider configured to use the network policy or multitenant network isolation modes, you must explicitly allow access between the  `openshift-operators-redhat` and `openshift-logging` projects. The method you use to allow access depends on the network isolation mode.
```

Reviewer: But even that isn't exactly correct; OpenShift SDN has these legacy network isolation modes. But OVN-Kubernetes is always in 'network policy' mode as it supports nothing else.

So you need to join projects for OpenShift SDN isolation mode multitenant.
And you need to create network policy objects for OVN-Kubernetes or OpenShift SDN isolation mode network policy.

I guess this is getting more complicated than one would hope for a small docs fix.

Author: Thanks for researching this and providing that extra information.

Author: I made significant changes that I hope reflect your suggestions.

.Procedure

To allow traffic between the OpenShift Elasticsearch Operator and the Red Hat OpenShift Logging Operator, perform either of the following actions:

> * If you configured network isolation mode with the OpenShift SDN CNI plug-in set to the *Multitenant* mode, join the two projects. For example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* If you are using the OpenShift SDN cluster network provider configured with the *multitenant* network isolation mode, join the two projects. For example:
```

+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc adm pod-network join-projects --to=openshift-operators-redhat openshift-logging
----

> * If you configured network isolation mode with the OpenShift SDN CNI plug-in set to the *NetworkPolicy* mode, set a label on the `openshift-operators-redhat` namespace. For example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* If you are using the OpenShift SDN cluster network provider configured with the *network policy* network isolation mode or the OVN-Kubernetes cluster network provider, set a label on the `openshift-operators-redhat` namespace. For example:
```

> * If you configured network isolation mode with the OpenShift SDN CNI plug-in set to the *NetworkPolicy* mode, set a label on the `openshift-operators-redhat` namespace. For example:

Reviewer: Or this _if_ statement could also be _a_ and _b_ steps: Set the namespace label, and then create & apply the network policy object in the correct namespace. It really is two+ discrete steps.

// * logging/cluster-logging-deploying.adoc

[id="cluster-logging-deploy-multitenant_{context}"]
= Installing OpenShift Logging with network isolation enabled

If your cluster network provider enforces network isolation, you must allow network traffic between the projects that contain the operators that OpenShift Logging deploys.

Network isolation blocks network traffic between pods or services that are in different projects. Deploying OpenShift Logging installs the OpenShift Elasticsearch Operator in the  `openshift-operators-redhat` project and the Red Hat OpenShift Logging Operator in the `openshift-logging` project. Therefore, you must allow traffic between these two projects.

{product-title} offers two supported choices, OpenShift SDN and OVN-Kubernetes, for the default Container Network Interface (CNI) network provider:

* The OpenShift SDN provider enforces network isolation when configured to use the _network policy_ or _multitenant_ modes. It does not enforce network isolation when configured to use the _subnet_ mode.

* The OVN-Kubernetes provider enforces network isolation in a way that is similar to the OpenShift SDN's _network policy_ mode.

.Procedure

> . If you are using the OpenShift SDN provider in *multitenant* mode, join the two projects. For example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. If you are using OpenShift SDN in *multitenant* mode, join the two projects. For example:
```

Reviewer: If _cluster network provider_ is too long, I'd opt for just _OpenShift SDN_ or _OVN-Kubernetes_ for subsequent usage; just shortening to _provider_ isn't quite descriptive enough, so omitting it seems better in that case.

> . If you are using the OpenShift SDN provider in *multitenant* mode, join the two projects. For example:

Reviewer: This is sort of a single step procedure, with two paths; Would it make sense to use a bullet list, with _a_ and _b_ for the network policy path, and just _*_ for the project join path?

.Procedure
* If...
* Else...
  1. this
  2. that

+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc adm pod-network join-projects --to=openshift-operators-redhat openshift-logging
----

> . Otherwise, for the OpenShift SDN provider in *network policy* mode and the OVN-Kubernetes provider, perform the following actions:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Otherwise, for OpenShift SDN in *network policy* mode and OVN-Kubernetes, perform the following actions:
```

[id="cluster-logging-deploy-multitenant_{context}"]
= Installing OpenShift Logging into a multitenant network

> In a cluster, if the _OpenShift SDN network isolation mode_ is configured to use either the _multitenant_ or _Network policy_ mode, projects in that cluster are isolated from each other: network traffic is not allowed between pods or services in different projects. Network policy is the default mode in {product-title} {product-version}.

Author: @jboxman Am I understanding this correctly: If Network policy is the default mode in {product-title} {product-version}, it seems very likely that users must perform at least one of the following steps in most deployments. If so, it seems like I should put this task, "Installing OpenShift Logging into a multitenant network," in the main flow of deployment tasks. WDYT?

Author: @jboxman Yes, that's unclear to me. 

@kabirbhartiRH, what do you think? It seems like most Logging deployments are going to be in clusters that have the OpenShift SDN or OVN-Kubernetes providers, right? 

@jboxman If we look at the TOC at [the top of the assembly](https://deploy-preview-33202--osdocs.netlify.app/openshift-enterprise/latest/logging/cluster-logging-deploying?utm_source=github&utm_campaign=bot_dp#cluster-logging-deploy-multitenant_cluster-logging-deploying), we see that the two "Web Console" and "CLI" workflows merge back into a single set of "Post-intallation tasks". These post-installation tasks aren't optional or less important.  Ideally, I'd like to avoid this type of "funneling" and have two separate assemblies for each workflow, one the "Web Console" workflow and another for the "CLI" workflow. But I don't want to get into re-architecting now.

Author: Thanks you both. I just pushed changes which reflect that network isolation is probable, rather than merely possible.

Because the OpenShift Elasticsearch Operator and the Red Hat OpenShift Logging Operator are installed in different projects, you must explicitly allow access between the  `openshift-operators-redhat` and `openshift-logging` projects. How you allow this access depends on how you configured multitenant isolation mode.

.Procedure

To allow traffic between the OpenShift Elasticsearch Operator and the Red Hat OpenShift Logging Operator, perform either of the following actions:

> * If you configured multitenant isolation mode with the OpenShift SDN CNI plug-in set to the *Multitenant* mode, join the two projects. For example:

Reviewer: @rolfedh, fyi, for consistency we've been calling these _network_ isolation modes: https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.7/networking/openshift_sdn/about-openshift-sdn.html#nw-openshift-sdn-modes_about-openshift-sdn

Author: Thank you, @jboxman. This turned out to be quite important. The original content misused the terminology and was therefore incorrect.

+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc adm pod-network join-projects --to=openshift-operators-redhat openshift-logging
----

> * If you configured multitenant isolation mode with the OpenShift SDN CNI plug-in set to the *NetworkPolicy* mode, set a label on the `openshift-operators-redhat` namespace. For example:

Reviewer: fwiw, At some point, this won't be strictly necessary if enabled and available in OCP: https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/network-policies/#targeting-a-namespace-by-its-name

Author: > fwiw, At some point, this won't be strictly necessary
I wonder, what's the best way to track whether and when we downstream this change? Any suggestions?
